Connecting your Raspberry
pie to a network.
This is pretty done easy because
it's using a real operating system.
It's using Linux.
Now one way is to use
a wired connection that is
using the built-in RJ45 connector, right?
So you can use a wired
Ethernet connection,
plug it into a jack in your wall.
I'm assuming you're not going to be doing
that because people don't do that so much.
But you could do that, no problem.
The more common way is to
use a WiFi connection.
And that's using
the built-in WiFi adapter.
So it's built into the board,
you don't have to do anything with this.
You do minimal.
Just what you would do with
a Windows machine, or a Mac,
or any Linux machine, it's very easy.
So what do you do to connect to a network?
So power up the Raspberry Pi,
you've already done the setup.
Power up the Raspberry Pi.
Start WiFi config from the desktop, okay?
You can find an icon
in the pull down menu,
you could find it in the pull down menus
or you could do it from a console window.
Select WiFi config.
Then you get a pop-up like this.
It allows you to select a network and
give a password.
Now you've seen very similar interfaces
on any, a Mac or a Windows, and
any Linux machines you ever use,
it's the same thing.
You get this pop-up, you click scan,
it'll show you a list of all
the networks that you can receive.
You click one, you type in a password
if it's secured and that'll be that.
It's very simple to connect to WiFi
network, to any network, to a wired or
WiFi network.
You just do it like this.
Now once you connect in that way,
just like you would with your laptop.
And DHCP is going to be
used to get an IP address.
DHCP is just a protocol
to give an IP Address.
So everything on that network has
to have some unique IP Address.
And before you've connected
your device to the network,
it doesn't have an IP Address.
You power it on, it gets one,
dynamically, that's what DHCP is for.
But that's all built-in,
there's nothing for you to do for that.
You don't have to worry about
the protocol or anything like that.
Now then you're probably going to
want to use a web browser.
Now you don't have to.
There are lots of ways to use a network
without using a web browser but
say you do,
there's a pre-installed one, Chromium.
Just click on its icon and
they will appear and
you'll be using a web browser just like
any other machine, it's pretty simple.
Now one thing to warn
you about is firewall.
[COUGH] We're not talking heavily
about firewalls in this class.
But you should be aware of them because
sometimes they make it hard for you.
So it depends on a network you're using.
But what happens is,
sometimes say I'm using a school network.
Say here, right?
Here at UCI.
My network,
whenever I set up a new computer,
by defaults lots of ports are blocked off,
are firewalled.
So what happens is there are these ports,
16,000 ports roughly,
and almost all of them are blocked off.
So there's a firewall that
the department sets up,
because I don't run the network, right?
The department does.
The department has firewalls so
no traffic can be sent on pretty much
any port except for 80 or something.
Port 80 is what web traffic is on.
So if you have a web browser or
web server [COUGH] it would be on port 80.
But all the rest of the ports
they basically block off.
And this is a problem for
me because I need the other ports.
So what happens is every port is
associated with an application.
So for instance, say I want to use
Secure Shell, which I always use.
That's on port 22.
That I always have to say,
please unblock port 22 for me, right?
Because I need it, right?
So what may happen is you may have
a firewall on you system that you didn't
set up or maybe you turned it on and
you didn't know what it was doing, right?
And it may be blocking
your communications.
So maybe you have this firewall.
Now it must be set to allow
an application's traffic.
So each application is going to
have its own different port.
Now most of the time, port 80,
which is for web browsing,
that's almost always unblocked, right?
Because everybody wants
to use a web browser.
But there are other applications
like Secure Shelf for
me or, maybe a game, right, for you.
They all use different ports and
those may be blocked.
So when you run other applications,
it may not work, and
it may be because of a firewall.
If that's the case, either you had to
fix the firewall or you have to get
an administrator to fix the firewall to
open up that traffic, open that portfolio.
So if you run a network application and
it doesn't work,
you want to check the firewall settings.
Just say look, is this port open, right?
Or ask the network administrator.
So this is just something, it's out of
the scope of the class a little bit but
it may cause you a problem.
You should be aware that
this happens sometimes.
And by the way, as a note, one way
that I get around this type of thing,
that I try to get around this type
of thing if I'm sort of in a pinch
is I use my cellphone and
make a WiFi hotspot from that, right?
And that doesn't have any firewall on
it because I didn't put any on it, and
then I can get around any of that.
Which is somewhat unsafe because
now you're not using a firewall but
it gets over these problems sometimes,
at least for the short term.
Thank you.
[SOUND]